okay okay hello everyone I guess I guess
you can see we already see a lot of
comments hey hey hey um so welcome to my
channel guys for watching this on
youtube and welcome to language rip up
those publishing this webinar on
language rips website this is going to
be all English webinar because we have a
special guest today um Jonathan would
you please hey I just wanted to you to
just say hi um yeah okay microphone hi
everybody so thanks for inviting me
marina it's a pleasure to to touch
Christian and do these webinars with you
and with for your audience
I can work with her thank you thank you
very much
for those who do not know Jonathan
Jonathan is our teacher who helps people
learn English with a native speaker
because he's a native speaker he's from
California United States and he also
helps the students pass TOEFL which is
an exam that everybody needs to get into
American Canadian
univer amazing scores like I scored 117
and that's all wow that's that's great
but he student has actually scored 118
recently and many people actually over
do what they expected to have to an exam
something he's a he's a great teacher
and he knows um what I think when you
taking an exam it's really important to
know like all the tips and tricks that
can help you go through the whole
experience and Miss Jonathan is doing so
many people and getting a little
feedback
he's always up-to-date with the latest
tricks how to have a best oho and today
a webinar is going to be about just two
bars of total which is speaking and
writing and basically they are different
from reading and listening because on
these bars when you're getting ready for
the exam you need feedback because you
can download a lot of rap tests on the
Internet
and you can do the reading part you can
do the listening part and the computer
would tell you whether you're right or
wrong
but if you're doing a speaking part
nobody except for a person who knows how
to find soulful can tell you the your
mistakes or whether you're doing well or
not and also writing somebody needs to
correct mistakes so we're going to talk
about these parts today and while we
still will really have 170 people and I
see like the number growing which is
cool I just wanted to ask you guys if
you can hear everything like if
everything is okay and also if you could
tell us where you're from because um so
I am streaming from California Jonathan
is streaming from Mexico today is going
to be listening to see our geography
today so if you could dry out where
you're from like a country or your city
that will be amazing I see yeah I'm
waiting waiting for your comments
everybody's saying hi I'm saying that
they like Jonathan's beard okay um it's
midnight already in Indonesia or while
we have people from Indonesia or um
Hungary Dubai Georgia Brazil San Paolo
Germany Russia Italy Colombia well I
think the whole world is watching like
Oh Texas hi Texas st. Petersburg but in
Miami now India Belarus Jordan Budapest
while this is such a cool geography ah
yeah Jakarta India Turkey Indonesia
varun Mexico Russia Poland Arizona Chile
Indonesia India Mexico Iran Algeria
I feel like I'm glad this you know
competition and I'm like naming
countries Mumbai cool Kyrgyzstan yeah I
think we have the whole world today
which is pretty cool like this is what
unites like everybody everybody's
learning
oh wow so a lot of beamed a lot of
Mexico definitely and yeah Russia
Palestine us a a lot of USA cool guys
well that's amazing like seriously thank
you so much for attending we have more
than 200 people now and I think we're
going to start it right so this is going
to be like interactive lesson and this
is something you would experience if
you're taking classes Jonathan but when
you're taking them one-on-one it could
be more personalized ah but yeah it's
gonna be chicks and trips and I'm going
to share uh what I went through in my
TOEFL exam so I don't start cool cool
yeah so this will be kind of like a
lesson number one you could think of it
it kind of like that if you were
scheduling a lesson with me and kind of
going through because like marina said
you can do the reading and listening
sections independently and you can get
your feedback through those kind of
practice tests and the exercises and get
an idea of what you would probably be
scoring plugging the data test but
oftentimes when you're doing the
speaking and the writing you don't quite
get like the assurance of how well am I
actually doing so having them the kind
of feedback from a native speaker even
from other people who have taken the
test because marina has a lot of great
advice as well from her experience and a
lot of videos that she has on her
channel as well so it's like a
combination get as much information as
you can from people with taking the test
their experience teachers names figures
and just get as much information as you
can before you take the test and take in
many practice tests as you can so you
can feel more comfortable with your
preparations so we're going to get into
the the presentation I'm going to share
my screen now and make sure that you can
see the presentation so can you just let
me know you see the screen yes we can
see the screen okay and it can you can
see it moving between the slides
yeah okay so we're here to talk about
speaking in the writing section so hi
for me and hi from marina
so as marina said
I'm a native speaker I'm from the United
States I'm from California I've been
teaching English and other foreign
languages since about 1999 so it's been
about 17 years uh I've been teaching
English I was in in France for six years
I've now been in Mexico for eight years
and I've been teaching online primarily
for almost almost a year now for and
there's been a lot of total prep
students along the way so let's get into
this so today we're going to be looking
at the speaking and writing sections I'm
going to go kind of tight a question by
question and some strategies and what to
expect so a lot of this material on
these examples that we're going to be
looking at are directly from the ETS and
some of the practice guides that they
have so you'll see the like the wording
that way it would be on the day of the
test because there's there's a lot of
material out there I mean there's a lot
of great books a lot of great websites
but it's generally a good idea to be as
familiar as you can with the authentic
kind of questions the way they will be
the day to test so let's get in here so
how is the speaking section organized so
for those of you who haven't taken the
test yet or who may not be familiar with
way it's organized you've got six
speaking tasks two of them are
independent which means you just have
the question and you start speaking you
have a few seconds to prepare and four
of these um type three through six are
integrated which means that you have a
complication of some reading material um
listening to a quotation or a lecture
and then you speak and and talk about
what you read and what you listen to and
last two material you just have
listening to a conversation or listening
to a lecture and then speaking about
that so for the piece type
and I want the type one tattoo you're
talking about something familiar so your
personal experiences your things about
people you know famous famous people
events objects places things that you
feel comfortable talking about in
general and tattoo you you have to make
some kind of choice between maybe two
things like some people prefer this for
that which one you prefer and why um and
it I mean although it is a familiar
topic oftentimes these two type one type
to end up being some of the more kind of
challenging questions for students
because they may not be good at
brainstorming or just suddenly answering
a question what's your favorite music or
which you prefer going to restaurants or
stayin at hominy
so if you're not really comfortable with
brainstorming that's a skill you kind of
want to practice this on before the test
starts and for the type three four five
six
those ones you're going to want to like
any good at your reading skills and with
your listening skills because and and
taking notes on those sections because
you're gonna have to be able to repeat
the information that you've heard but
you need to focus on the main points you
don't want to have the kind of minor
incidental information in there you want
to get to elicit the per talking about
either for like the campus situation for
type 3 type five what is it that they're
talking about what is the problem or
what is the topic what's their opinion
and for the type 4 type six with the the
lecture and the reading you need to be
able to summarize the main points and
you could a paraphrasing and citing
sources so let's take a look at some
examples here so these are
examples from the ETS so one example
here could be okay talk about a pleasant
and memorable event that happened while
you were in school explain why this
event brings back fond memories you have
15 seconds to think of this 45 seconds
to speak and another example here choose
a place you go to often that is
important to you explain why it is
important please include specific
details in your explanation so what
they're looking for here is kind of you
have to pick something and you have to
give some reasons why you're going to
talk about that so some some like in a
type 2 with this personal choice let's
say some people think it's more fun to
spend time of friends and restaurants or
cafes others think it is more fun to
spend time with friends at home which
you think is better explain why so
really important to answer that question
which one you have to choose between
these two and another example here's
some color students choose to take
courses in a variety of subject areas in
order to get a broad education others
choose to focus on a single subject area
in order to have a deeper understanding
of that area which approach to course
selection do you think is better for
students and whine so you have to make a
choice here take one of two sides and
then really give your hamster's your the
details which one you would prefer so
some of the strategies yeah Drummond
yeah I just wanted to that like these
two first questions for me they were the
most difficult ones Vegas um India and
other questions like Jonathan said you
just follow a structure they give you
like a text that you read they give you
something to listen to and here you just
get a question so you basically have to
come up with the answer and with the
reasons and what helped me like we're in
a question where you have to choose
first a second ah don't waste your time
when really thinking which choice is
better because they would normally ask
like do you prefer to eat in a
restaurant or like at home for example
just um set something for yourself that
you're going to pick the first option
and then it's really important when
you're picking something and when you're
when you're answering the question to
have two reasons why you think it's
better and the reasons can be you don't
have to you know
make something exquisite up just you
know say something that you think
something that comes to your mind first
and it's really important that your
answer is grammatically structured so
you can start with them at the Sun video
on YouTube where I share some of the
templates that I've used so you have to
start with all the injured actually
words like to my mind eating in a
restaurant is better and here a couple
of reasons why first so when you have
the structure like first you have this
introductory words to introduce your
opinion then you have this introductory
words to introduce your reasons and
first because I don't know it's faster
second because you don't have to wash up
and then you have to conclude again with
the template this is why I think eating
in a restaurant is that um so when you
have this template in your head you can
write down what I just said and Jonathan
it's going to you know say something
again but when you have this template in
you had really gives you more time to
think of the reasons because this is
basically the hardest part that you have
15 seconds to think of the reasons and
when you have something in mind teachers
how like extra brain activities still
thinking of what are you gonna say and
if it's you know they don't care if the
reason is you know we're really
well-thought just any reasons but
grammatically structured yeah I think
that's that's my comment on the first
question oh yeah of course yes so just
like we were saying here there's no
wrong or right choice when you just have
to kind of pick the first idea that kind
of comes to mind and I would can we say
like if you can brainstorm maybe three
or four supporting reasons and then you
can kind of select the best to a what
I've seen from my own brainstorming and
from other students is if you just stick
to brainstorming with one or two ideas
they tend to kind of merge together and
you end up with kind of one idea so if
you want to have like the second support
and yet you kind of end up bringing you
end up kind of improvising while
speaking
and if you kind of force yourself to
just keep generating ideas in those
first 15 seconds you can then kind of
have a couple to choose from if one is
not a strong idea you can kind of pick
the best ones oh yeah like what you've
put a bus that also happens so she went
yeah down they just fly away yeah yeah
so kind of taking the notes it's like
very brief notes as well on paper take
advantage of the paper to do that and
and one thing that I've discovered with
one of the students where we were we
were getting a little frustrated of aha
I wish I had a take - I wish I could
like I do over with the speaking and we
were thinking like well are you being
recorded during the brainstorming
section and we're like well now actually
you're not being recorded during that
brainstorming so what's to stop you from
speaking during the brainstorming so you
could actually practice rehearsing your
topic sentence before you're actually
recorded and I hear a lot of students
who I say and okay start speaking and
then there's about five seconds of hum
um okay so in and that's like five
seconds that is kind of lost so I I
generally advise students to kind of if
you remember the Olympics from a couple
months ago and you had the swimmers or
the runners those people are waiting
like for that gunshot or for that noise
to just happen so they can instantly
jump off into the water or jump off the
starting block and get started
where with a lot of students for this
TOEFL speaking there's a lot of
reticence where they're a bit a bit
timid a bit nervous they don't know how
to get like started and I think the most
important thing is just get started get
that first sentence going and you want
to start like speaking with confidence
and once you have that confidence and
you're setting a pace for your speaking
the best will kind of
developed but if that if that start is
kind of shaky there's a chance that the
rest your answer kind of might erode so
you want to start strong and build
stronger with that so I would recommend
kind of rehearsing that topic sentence
if you have a few seconds before the
recording starts stay calm stay focused
stay relaxed it is a stressful
environment you are surrounded by other
people taking a test next to you you
they may they'll be speaking you have
the test organizers who may be walking
around checking if the computer is
working or looking over people's
shoulders don't let those people with
distract you just stay focused on your
speaking tasks and and just really try
to kind of sound natural sound like
you're talking to a friend um I get a
lot of recordings where I talk to a
student in the lesson and they need to
have a conversation and we sounds like
we connect well and in the recording
sounds like it's a completely different
person they sound kind of as if they
were working on a radio station or
suddenly they were kind of an actor and
it just it doesn't quite sound natural
and I would recommend people to kind of
close your eyes for a second imagine
that the computer for the test behind it
is your best friend or one of your close
family members and when you're going to
be speaking to the microphone imagine
you're connecting with that person and
you're just kind of telling them your
ideas about this topic and and just try
to sound like you're having part of a
conversation just keep it kind of
natural keep it fluid and if you have
memorized part of a template try to keep
those phrases natural if they sound like
they're awkwardly memorized the
examiners the people who are going to be
rating your
you're speaking sample they're going to
notice if something sounds kind of
memorized or like it doesn't quite fit
in you're speaking so you want a sound
kind of spontaneous with that and be
careful with your pronunciation make
sure it's clear articulate speak clearly
into the microphone also use intonation
patterns there are exercises that we
work on for content and function words
so that you know like the subject the
verb adjective those those words that
are most important in your Mastiff those
need to come out loudly and clearly and
kind of some of the function words which
are less important need to kind of be
kind of softer and faster so that's one
exercise that we work on for content and
function words make sure you're
expressing yourself clearly you don't
want to get a really difficult complex
abstract idea that is difficult to to
talk about and make sure your ideas are
staying connected to the topic and keep
your pacing going keep a good flow if
you make a mistake don't stop keep going
because the the highest scores don't
have to be perfect they do have some
tolerance on pronunciation or a brief
pause but they don't have to be perfect
so if you may prefer to say um don't
give up keep keep going and and try to
avoid some redundancy or repeat yourself
just to fill up time so in your
vocabulary you can keep it kind of
simple and the graphical structure is
kind of conversational and simple to
understand that's going to be some good
ways to improve there what else would
you add here marina yeah thank you
yeah about being nervous actually this
is a very important thing like you have
to understand that people who are
checking Touhou speaking a really nice
ego like because there is so many talked
to a couple of students who went through
TOEFL experience and they say I made so
many mistakes and I thought I failed the
speaking part and I was
the same situation because again I had
like 45 seconds to talk and I only
talked for 30 seconds and I had 15
seconds when I just went silent and then
I decided to say something and I just
said
err and that was it this is how I
finished the answer and I thought wow
they're not going to give me the highest
score because yeah I was nervous because
this was the first task and during all
the other tasks I was thinking oh I
failed in the first test kind of getting
this high score but really those people
understand that this is speaking this is
stressful and what they really want to
see is that you can structure your
thoughts you can tell people what you
think and they don't really care whether
you were to fast or slow if they if you
comprehend if you you know you some
blood connection words and you don't
have a lot of mistakes you should be
fine
so despite of that mistake instead of
getting not going silent at the end of
the task
I still got 30 out of 30 with it which
is perfect so I can say that those guys
for taking TOEFL they understand that it
is kind of stressful to go to a computer
and you don't have to be super perfect
because you only had 15 seconds to
prepare and also if you think about oh I
just made a mistake then you have less
brain material to think about answering
the question you're still thinking about
how you kind of failed but you haven't
actually failed so just imagine that you
talking to a friend I think that's yeah
that's a great advice and yeah my
favorite tip for the speaking part for
the first questions make sure that you
go into the class early because other
people will start the speaking part I
don't know whether a lot of people are
using the strategy but if you go to the
class during the break some people who
don't learn it already started speaking
part and you would hear which ends which
questions they got and everybody gets
the same questions in the classroom so
when I went to the classroom I saw other
people talking about music and I kind of
realized what war was the questions so I
sat down and still had four minutes left
on my break and I wrote down the answer
and then
heard my neighbor answering second
questions so I wrote the answer to the
second question as well and my stress
went away completely because I knew what
the questions would be so this is also
very useful and guys also I wanted to
tell you that if you want to take
classes with Jonathan which I highly
advise at least one class because if you
don't have like budget for preparation I
think at least one class to get feedback
because I also took classes because I
needed feedback on my speaking part in
my writing part and if you're super
perfect you you it just gives you a
surance that you're super perfect so
we're giving a discount today till
midnight your time and it's 50% discount
on all of the packages that you can take
Jonathan and the link is below the video
so if you go there you will still have
some time to book the classes with a
discount and this that's the first time
we're giving something like that so
don't miss it
yeah thanks Jonathan yeah yeah perfect
and so let's keep moving along and just
to I know a lot of you want to see the
writing section as well so that's coming
out shortly let me just get through
these integrated type questions and
examples and some of those strategies
but I'll try to keep this moving a
little bit faster so we can get to the
writing section as well so let's move on
here okay so the type 3 is the campus
situation as you'll have a reading
passage about some announcement or the
university's planning to do something
that you have conversation or the two
students a man and a woman will talk
about this decision or this announcement
they'll express an opinion and then your
job here is to kind of restate what that
opinion is and explain the reasons why
they give for that opinion and it's very
similar in size of the man or the woman
and there's some kind of decision so you
really need to kind of you're not
expressing your own opinion you're just
restating what they talked about
so some strategies here similar to kind
of type 1 make sure you're taking some
notes while you are listening to the
conversation and and you want to kind of
use a template so you can see like that
the man says this the woman says that
and just kind of briefly be able to
identify it do they agree with this do
they disagree with this and then start
noticing what are the reasons for
agreeing or disagreeing and then when
you're preparing from speaking you don't
have time to write anything new it's
really just kind of circling or
underlining or crossing something out so
you can kind of keep your eye where you
need to focus on your notes and then
like as I mentioned before practice
giving that topic sentence of what
they're talking about from the reading
passage and summarizing what the
opinions are and again kind of take a
bit deep breath be confident start
confidently start strong and just
describe what the reading passage is
very briefly but stay more focused on
what is in conversation itself and what
their opinion is and why I have that the
opinion so okay um I think this
situation for a lot of students it's not
that difficult because I think they're
used to conversational English in
general thanks some things to worry
about is kind of practicing some of the
phrases for reporting citing
paraphrasing to like the man said this
or the male students at this and try to
find some variety in your vocabulary so
you're not always saying the same exact
phrases that kind of variety will help
improve your score a little bit just
make sure that you're what you do say
that is accurate that you're getting the
main ideas don't don't get distracted by
too many like small tiny details that
are in there just stick to the main
points here okay um any things that you
would add um yeah I think this is a this
is one of the coolest questions because
it actually asks you about what you all
have encountered and I think uh getting
ready when you're getting ready for
speaking practice also very important to
watch a lot of films about American life
because they're actually asking about
those aspects and if you watch a lot of
movies about students about campus life
you will get over all of the vocabulary
because otherwise just studying that
doesn't
fun and I think that studying for
anything should be fun because you're
not studying to answer the tests you are
studying for you know to to be able to
speak a language to be able to integrate
in the environment so make something fun
of your preparation process if you have
a lot of time like well a lot I mean
more than three weeks um so if you have
like couple of hours every day make sure
that you for example watch a YouTube
blogger who is studying in the States
right now or you watch some movie like
commenting about campus life in the
States because of all of the vocabulary
all the questions we're going to see
them in the actual test and it really
helps and it also really helps you
distract because when you're just you
know studying a TOEFL using books it
makes it boring sometimes but if you're
just watching something also makes it
easier so this will be my advice for
this one yeah and I think um yeah like
you said of giving materials for like
sometimes you could look at websites
that are for like student associations
at universities kind of see what are
some of the topics that are going on on
campus and see if people express an
opinion a lot of students right now are
like really active in social media so
you can maybe find things online and
those platforms to see if students are
talking about certain things that are
going on and just see how they express
themselves and see if you can kind of be
able to paraphrase that express in your
own words as well so okay um and let's
move on now for the type 4 which would
be an academic lecture so this would be
a reading passage just a short
description of like a concept or
something and then the lecture the
professor will illustrate this or expand
on that give an example and so then it's
your job to kind of explain what that
concept is don't forget to do that I've
heard examples where they get straight
into what the lecture examples are but
they don't really explain what the
concept is so make sure you have what
that concept is on what the idea is
worth definition early on because
they're asking you to explain it and
then they want you to give the examples
that the professor talks about so in
there again taking notes while you're
listening and you want to spend more
time a little bit on the explanation the
examples of reasons you need to give
that concept definition briefly but and
again you're not expressing your opinion
on this at all you're just repeating
information you heard mostly from the
lecture you don't want to repeat
everything because there is some
incidental minor details want them that
the most important points that are being
expressed on there okay and again use a
variety of phrases for the reporting the
citing paraphrasing there's a lot of
good resources that are out there so you
can practice with your English skills
and another good way to do this is maybe
read an article and summarize it in your
own words maybe look at something on a
TED talk watch presentation and try to
express some of the main ideas in there
in your own words and try to cite or
quote the speaker and try to quote the
like reading materials that you've used
and try to put the two sources together
to compare contrast with that okay I do
have some students who struggle with
this one with the lecture so they do
need to work on their note-taking skills
so that's real important you don't want
to write down everything you won't be
able to write everything you need to be
able to summarize these main ideas as
you're taking notes and again using a
template is helpful so you can see what
the main idea is a concept and maybe the
two examples or a definition and maybe a
contrasting how one might be a general
and a specific usage or two separate
ways to interpret an idea so they're
generally two things that are being
expressed in this what would you add
here marina um yeah I would add that
this question can be on several topics
like uh it can be biology psychology the
concept can come
anywhere from anywhere that can be
studied in the university and again like
to make your preparation a fun process
to make it easier for you to study I
recommend watching YouTube videos on
several different topics like I had this
difficulty when I started preparing the
TOEFL I saw a lot of questions about
ancient art and I don't really I'm not
really into ancient art so um I just
opened like BBC series on ancient caves
and France or like paintings in case and
I just washed it and BBC they try to
make it on as well and I listened to
those words that they use I got familiar
with the concept itself because
sometimes it's also different all over
the world and for example in the states
they might have astronomy but in your
country they wouldn't teach you
astronomy and you're not familiar with
the concept at all so just make sure
you're familiar with the concepts they
use in TOEFL it's astronomy art like
ancient art as well a physics biology
just the basic concepts because what you
need here is not like understand every
single field of some particular science
you need to be able to understand what
it's told and to be able to kind of
relate to something that you know as
well understand some words so make sure
again to spend some time watching videos
and different topics and that's why I
say like if you are English is perfect
then it would take you like two to three
weeks to get ready for Topol because
don't feel only tests your ability to
speak English but also two to three
weeks that would be enough to get
familiar with the structure and like to
reduce the nervousness but if you have
more time really make sure that you
watch all of those videos and make it a
fun process again if you don't want to
spend so much time wearing the TOEFL
also give told myself that hey they say
these are concepts that are familiar to
a lot of people in the world and this is
new information this is interesting it's
also use that time to grow as a
personality I'd say so cool yeah I think
definitely
getting familiar with a variety of
topics that's a really good way to
prepare I mean they tell you you don't
have to know those topics in advance but
it is a good way to kind of give
yourself a little bit of a like more
comprehensive like oh this this topic is
a bit more familiar as opposed to like
oh there's something like a week ago
yeah yeah the science topic I hate
science so I just I'm afraid of all
these concepts well that kind of
attitude will probably just make you
kind of panic if you get a science topic
so kind of go discover a few things on
magazines and also websites and some
YouTube channels
yeah just hear them talking about this
some kind of introductory courses and
there's also moves like these massive
open online courses where you get an
introduction to a topic you don't have
to pay for those usually for these free
ones but it just gives you a way to kind
of what are some of these main concepts
if you're not kind of walking into this
type for and type six blind just have a
little bit there to help you okay I know
a lot of people want to see the writing
second so let's move on to type five
type six okay so here there's a campus
problem there's usually something like
oh I need a turn in this research paper
but I don't know something happened and
then they say well what about if you
talk to the professor or what about if
you ask for an extension and then though
the the man and the male student the
PMO's doing that pros say like oh well
this reason you could do the dis and
they might disagree you might not like
that idea so that's why they're going to
have this problem and they're going to
be two solutions and this one it's
really important that you do express
your opinion I have too many students
who will give me the whole summary of
what the problem is all of the details
in the dialogue of the man said this but
then he didn't like that he disagreed
and she agreed and they spend like 50
seconds telling me the whole summary of
the conversation and then the last ten
seconds they'd realize oh my gosh I
didn't express my opinion I didn't give
my suggestion or my recommendation so I
would say it's really this type 5
almost like a type 2 question in terms
of you have to choose between two
solutions and you want to spend as brief
amount of time on the what the problem
is like say what the problem is but
don't really go into the detail then
what are the two solutions just briefly
to say what those solutions are and
spend at least a good 40 seconds talking
about what you prefer and why what you
think is a good solution or which one is
better spend a lot of that time focused
on that section you want 40 seconds of
your opinion whereas if it's like only
20 seconds 10 seconds of your opinion
you're not giving a fully developed
answer so it's really important that you
cheat that summary of the problem and
the two possible solutions as brief as
possible and spend a lot more of your
time with your own opinion and which one
you would save better solution so you
want to work on like vocabulary words
for comparing contrasting expressing
like best and better and explaining the
reason why something is important or why
it's a good solution why it's a good
idea so that's really important for this
type file and again kind of citing
paraphrasing reporting what the people
have said and have a variety of phrases
and really using these transition words
and connecting words to really develop
your answer there and okay let's move on
to the type six we can get to the
speaking that the writings that concern
so the academic lecture again kind of
related to the type four where you don't
have any you don't have any reading
material you just have a lecture itself
so the professor is going to be giving
like a concept in two definitions and so
you need to be able to express what that
concept is and give what these
definitions are it's very similar to the
type four and I would say the strategies
are very similar to like define what the
concept that it is say what it is and in
the examples the reasons that the
professor gives on there okay so and
this
that you use four-ten-four are very
similar to the XX
so let's now get into the writing
section with anything a lot of people we
want to hear that advice so okay so the
writing section here so you've got two
things you got an integrated essay and
you have an independent testing so each
created means you have a little bit of a
reading and a lecture so kind of like if
it were on the speaking section um kind
of like type four where you have to do
reading and lecture and and then you're
summarizing points except in this case
for the integrated essay the lecture
will contradict what is in the reading
passage so for your for your for your
notes you want to be able to highlight
what the main differences are like what
the main details are in that writing in
that reading passage to identify like
what are the reasons that's support this
or disagree with this and then in the
lecture there would be three points that
are related to the reading passage in in
your note-taking you want to be able to
identify what those three points are
because when you're developing your
writing you're gonna want to take like
the body section of your paragraphs to
kind of take it point by point and say
okay the reading passage said this and
they said this for these reasons
however in the lecture the professor
refutes this point and he says for this
reason and you want to link that
information kind of point quite a
pulling up like the reason for the
reading passage the counter-argument in
the lecture the reason why the professor
disagrees or why that point is not valid
and give that supporting information and
then move on your next body paragraph
number to repeat the same structure kind
of as a template take the second point
from the reading passage refute this as
a support
it and then refute it from the lecture
and then repeat again for like your
third paragraph the third body by
aircraft from Third Point do the same
thing again percent the idea from the
reading passage the reasons why it was
supported by the author and then the
reasons why the the professor disagrees
with that statement and the reason why
and then finally you don't really need
the conclusion here because you're just
you only have 20 minutes and you're just
covering these points and if you give
those three points you can express them
clearly and simply and try to avoid
being redundant you're going to have a
good essay um you don't really need a
conclusion that's not really necessary
the introduction though you could
include kind of a brief summary of what
those little points are and I think
that's a good a good way to to cover the
essay and even though it is twenty
minutes try to aim for finishing your
text around like seventeen minutes so
you can give yourself about three
minutes to kind of go over your essay
and identify if you had any grammar
mistakes like subject verb agreement I
see a lot of problems with that sentence
structures like there might be a run-on
sentence there might be and what could
be something else here like the ideas
are not very clearly related from one to
the other so like your transition words
making sure that things develop clearly
um and yeah give yourself a few minutes
check your writing because there there
might be some silly mistakes you might
not catch as you're writing because
you're you're you're so focused on
writing and wanting to finish it you
might not um see some of those things
you don't want to just type completely
up until the last second and then hits
it you want to be able to kind of check
your writing what would you what would
you add for the integrated strategies
yeah I would think I would say having a
template again is a good thing to do
like if you aim for example for five
paragraphs like in the first paragraph
you describe out what happens in the
text and the second third and fourth
paragraph your key reason
and the fifth paragraph used to conclude
and this is also good like the
strategies good for any test because I
use the same strategy for GMAT they also
have an essay um so basically I wrote
down the words for each paragraph that I
want to start with like in my opinion
that Professor said the first reason is
that and when you have the structure
also you will have a draft paper that
you can use during the exam so what I
did before the writing part I sat down
and actually wrote down that template it
took me like two minutes because it was
in my head so I wrote it down just to
have it before my eyes and then I
started writing and when you have the
structure already it's really easy to
just insert words from this particular
text so just practice at home learn the
template and it's it doesn't matter if
you have like several sentences for
every paragraph it could be just one so
you don't have to AH you know Lauren
five different introductory phrases just
learn one that learning by heart and use
it all the time and so yeah practice at
home write down those texts also would
help me a sport while I scored 27 over
30 but I guess it's really difficult to
score the maximum score on this part
because even native speakers coalesce
sometimes but what helped me and as well
was exceeding the word count
what was the word come for this one was
it 250 right um it's about 150 to 225 so
like aiming for at least 200 words is
probably everyone or yeah I did get more
that's better you more work on everybody
feels yeah yeah it's not like you should
talk about things that have no
relationship text no they should be if
it should make sense and try to think of
as many things as you can like make sure
your ideas are developed and you're
using the documents and make sure what
the text is a little more than the word
count I'd say because they would also
see that you're okay with writing more
in the short period of time and
sometimes you have this dilemma like you
look at your text and you think well I'm
using easy words maybe I should insert
something like advanced vocabulary and
then you write it down and you think oh
did I spell it correctly so if you're
not sure of the word spelling just don't
insert it because this would reduce your
points a lot and it's even more than
like the reduction that you would get
for not using super complicated words so
just make sure everything is correct and
sometimes you think the word is easy but
actually it's easy because it's it has a
good analog in your country but then for
Americans is another word that they
typically use and I find that a lot um
so yeah again and when you prepare make
sure somebody actually checks your text
because we always make very typical
mistakes and the same mistakes over
again and it's good for somebody to
point them out so you know your mistakes
and you keep them in mind when you're
writing the text um basically yeah this
is my comment for that first process
yeah I like that idea of having that the
template and kind of giving yourself
some that structure before you get
started and just kind of fill in the
blanks um and that gives you a lot more
confidence that you you have a
well-structured well organized essay and
in that way you kind of you want to
reduce some of these kind of stress
factors and one of them would be like
well how do I organize myself in one of
them is like well okay for this
integrated one it's fairly predictable
on how this is organized so kind of just
follow a template and and and you should
be fine for that score the other one
getting into the independent one this
one you have a little more flexibility
so let's let's look at some of these
couple examples here so I put here so if
you have an independent you're
expressing your personal opinion on a
familiar topic so on here you could have
things do you agree or disagree with the
following statement and then there might
be an opinion statement and then saying
use specific reasons and examples
support your answer they're all going to
say that use reasons and examples for
cancer but some of it might be
you prefer others my it might be also
which of these situations do you think
is better another might be do your
support or oppose this idea this plant
so you're going to have 30 minutes for
this one and you want to write at least
300 words even more as you can and again
don't aim for doing this in 30 minutes
aim for like finishing by about 27
minutes you can have like two or three
minutes to review what you're talking
about similar to like the type 1 type 2
questions from the speaking section
you're brainstorming however here is
just yep to pick one or the other side
so some strategies do here is kind of
there's no really wrong or right choice
and kind of get about three or four out
of supporting reasons why you would
choose one side you can also think of
some supporting reasons for the opposite
that can be a one way to acknowledge the
other side and then refute it by giving
an even better reason why you support
your side so that's that's almost like a
way that lawyers would be progressive
presenting in a court room and that's
one way you can develop like a very
strong essay for that make sure that
your idea is your examples are clear and
that your supporting reasons are also
very easy to follow so you just want to
stay focused on the topic make sure
you're answering that topic don't get
off into some really abstract concepts
make sure that people who are reading
your essay can follow it very easily
it looks logical it looks developed and
and if you have any ideas that seem kind
of getting you off topic or going
somewhere else kind of delete this and
cut it you want to trim it you don't
want to just add your essay with with
meaningless sentences because some
students might memorize a sentence just
to throw it in there because it sounds
good
if it doesn't support your essay clearly
it's not going to be helpful so some of
those things they can spot it
this just looks out of place don't like
really just throw it in there because it
you did sound like a good idea just make
sure that your idea is kind of flow and
that they develop in a logical way that
you can support your ideas and I guess
these simple direct kind of vocabulary
grammar structures is it's a good idea
make sure that they're consistent so if
you choose one structure cheap and you
use that again make sure you don't have
some kind of a well this way I said it I
said it one way this way and then this
time it was slightly different
you want to make sure that you're using
it consistently or the spelling make
sure this the spelling is consistent if
you choose American English which is
primarily for the TOEFL make sure you're
using American English and grammatical
structures throughout your document if
you have a mix of things it's going to
be kind of awkward for that and yeah
definitely not some time to review your
text so you can eliminate some of these
mistakes what what else would you ruin
it um yeah so make sure your timing is
okay so you have some time to check ah
but also like if you you should train
checking yourself as well that's why I
said you should mark in your head like
which mistakes you normally make to make
sure to look for them because I think I
checked my essays like three times we
had it because I had plenty of time when
I finished but I still got 27 out of 30
and you can never know whether these
work grammar mistakes or maybe like
spelling mistakes or maybe they just
didn't like your ideas because sometimes
you can go online and Google like total
essay samples and sometimes you can see
samples that's for 30 and they can talk
TOEFL test makers explain that for every
question they have put people who would
check your essay they have like bullet
points of what a person should talk
about but we all think in very different
ways so maybe they were expecting you to
talk about this aspect if you talked
about a really different aspect and that
can also affect points but this is
really like you can't do anything about
that so don't worry about your thoughts
worry more about your grammar spelling
mistakes and the mistakes that you
typically make um so yeah um I also
wanted to add that we have like five
minutes before Jonathan finishes for
questions and I see like I'm reading
this chat here that we have a new tube
and just like people are writing all the
time so this is like a very active yeah
everybody yeah like see there it's like
like crazy and then you know people are
texting each other in Russian in Spanish
and Portuguese in English so it's it's
pretty cool and I like that we have this
soulful takers community here and I look
yeah electronics and finish and we will
answer some of your questions in the
chat so please make sure you're writing
the questions now yeah yeah and just
some really final last little things
just make sure you're speaking and
writing on a daily basis um it's like
obviously if you just wait until the day
the exam you're not gonna feel like as
comfortable so make this like even if
you're doing I have one week left before
the test or about a month before the
test just make it a daily activity to
practice your speaking practice your
writing make sure for the speaking
record yourself because there are a lot
of websites out there one of my favorite
is speakpipe
just the way it's sounds SP EA k p IP e
and they have a voice recorder on there
and you don't have to install anything
you can record yourself there's another
one that's called online - voice -
recorder that one is another one you can
use it you don't to install anything you
just record yourself and there's a lot
of other apps out there you can download
and install on your computer I might be
a little more complicated to use but if
you can use something simple to record
yourself you can hear some of the
typical mistakes that you make you can
also record yourself with a webcam and
then you can see like your body language
and like do you look confident when
you're speaking I know they're just
recording your voice but the way you
look um can also kind of the way you
look in your mind can also help you
convince yourself that
okay I'm going to do a great job on this
I sound confident I feel comfortable so
you want to kind of check yourself with
recording or webcam recording as well
there's some really great communities
out there like AI talky or lang-8 where
you can submit samples like on my talkie
the notebook entries you can do two of
these per day and I think if I like up
to 2500 characters per text so that's
about like 400 500 words for an essay so
I do recommend a lot of my students to
submit some of their like type 1 type 2
these integrated independent essays on
there and it can also get some feedback
from other native speakers and just see
some things that that they may not catch
on their own it really kind of review
what your mistakes are don't just be
aware that they exist but kind of do
something about them try to find some
grammar books there's a lot of resources
out there there's even a lot of websites
for online writing labs a lot of
universities have these one of my
favorite is from Purdue it's the owl
online I think you can do a Google
search for owl and Purdue and the online
Writing Lab and have a lot of great
advice for how to improve like college
essay writing also learns take notes
note-taking is very important for all of
these sections on the on the TOEFL
you're gonna have to take notes for
reading sections take notes for
listening section and the better you get
at taking notes easily for those kind of
reading passages and conversations and
lacquers and really get good at how do
you summarize paraphrase quote cite
sources and a good way to do that is
kind of do a lot of reading taking
articles on the internet and kind of
expressing the main ideas in your own
words and things so that's basically
like some of these extra tips I would
add on here but and finally just if
you've answered your question answered
again the only thing that's going to
happen is you can get better at it
you're not gonna get worse at it so that
are going to help that's going to help
your confidence and help you tackle
these things you don't know what I mean
on the exam itself so if you cover a
wide range of questions you're going to
get a lot more
on there so okay well thank you for
watching to attending let's get back to
some of your questions here yeah
thank you very much Jonathan this is a
really useful lecture um so yeah some of
your questions so before we go to
questions please feel free to post more
um I wanted to ask somebody if we have a
Chinese speaker here who is in America
maybe or somewhere else that who's from
China please reach out to me to marina
at language herb cone because I want to
start a yoga channel because I see a lot
of Chinese people coping like my videos
and I really need help with that so I
hope somebody from Chinese watching me
because I've seen some Chinese names
here in chat and if you would like to
help me that would be super awesome
thank you so much yeah and I'm going to
the questions now so um people are
asking what is the most difficult part
in TOEFL and I would say really depends
on you but I guess every um for any
nationality speaking would be the most
difficult part because um you can do
anything at home you can do reading you
can do listening you can practice
writing but practicing speaking is
something you cannot do in your own
country you either up jump on a Skype
with Jonathan or you go to an
english-speaking country and practice it
and this is basically what lingual trip
does we send students abroad to learn
languages like I'm here in California
and in San Francisco and I have a school
just next to my building which is kind
of the most popular school for students
and you should know that if you have an
ability to come to the States or to the
UK you can start any Monday with any
level just don't lingual trip and check
out what you can do and it's basically
cheaper than looking a hotel for example
in San Francisco especially in big
cities because you will get the same
price for the course in accommodation
and you would also get ready for TOEFL
like we have TOEFL preparation classes
and if you have any questions reach out
to us you can request a callback so we
can connect with you so yeah say
speaking and that's because you kind of
really practice it at home um so yeah or
you just you know Skype with a native
speaker for a holiday uh
thank you um can we get a PPT oh I'm
gonna I'm actually going to post this
video on YouTube and I think the quality
would be better once it's finalized on
YouTube and you should be able to read
what's in the presentation also Jonathan
is also talking about all of the things
um yeah one which type of topic should
we prepare again like TOEFL asks you
about all of the aspects you can think
of campus life biology physics alright
so just make sure you're you know you're
watching different videos in YouTube
you're know like TOEFL preparation
videos which them but also watch BBC it
was not our to something so all of the
topics are really important um what to
do the day before the test relax like
day before the test make sure your brain
is like is getting ready what's going to
happen tomorrow make sure you take our
chocolate with you make sure you have a
bottle of water if you're traveling to a
place you've never been before
ah make sure you know how to go to the
testing center because TOEFL starts at a
particular time and if you're late
they might reduce the time of your TOEFL
test so maybe like take a trip to the
testing center make sure you know how to
get there um and plan the day ahead um
and yeah no more like maybe practice
English but like just you know talk to
people know like doing more speaking
parts and actually we have this some I'm
gonna send to your link it's going to be
below the video we have this service now
where you can press a button and it's
completely an active person also wants
to speak English at the same time and it
costs just one dollar a day and you
don't see the person you're talking to
so there is no need to be ashame of your
accent of something if you don't like
for you it's okay to you just hang
up you don't know what to express it and
this is a cool thing to use with one
exam because you're in your home country
and you're talking your own language
you're talking in your native language
and it's good to have this know before
saying is what wouldn't go on
they same total health for a little
while to just exercise and train or the
actual Romans who used to do the same
you should speak English before the test
and people also tell me that it smell
food that before the speaking when you
break you just go out in the corridor
and speaking with yourself don't worry
like everybody's going to be doing that
you won't sing weird um yeah um I have
to take both dockland Giri which one
should I take first really good question
start with the hardest exam which is
cherry so if you have GMAT and TOEFL SAT
and TOEFL start with the hardest one
because GRE GMAT and SAT up desta taking
by Native Americans say that ok American
taken by the Americans and they steal in
preparation so if you have foreigner we
need to download that preparation time
and after like for me after GMAT TOEFL
was like a kindergarten test because you
have this super super difficult
vocabulary a very difficult analytical
test and when I opened the TOEFL test I
was looking for you know something
hidden I just couldn't understand that
the task is so easy and I was thinking
maybe thing it's something in the back
of their mind to me um when they made
this question so um yeah
TOEFL new super easy after two men and
Jerry so start with them cut it yeah I
can just comment on that um yeah I
definitely have seen one or two students
who have prepared for the theory and
then they send some ease they show me
some of their writing samples and I'm
just blown away to say like wow this is
the way that prepared the essay it is
extremely well-written it's very clear
the grammars is excellent and I'm like
have you been preparing for the TOEFL
before and they're like no I prepared to
the GRE and I'm like oh wow okay it's
definitely paying off you get like you
get double double the double the
exposure here like how you can apply
those skills so I would say yeah
applying head train for something harder
and then doing something easier in this
case I know TOEFL can be very stressful
for a lot of people but
if you raise the bar a little bit higher
and then come back down a whole team a
little bit easier
yeah that's true so start with our
hardest test um
that's another good question it's about
what's a good score on topo really
depends on University so if you're going
to your master's degree the minimum
would be 80 I haven't seen so eight zero
I haven't seen universities accepting
less than bad a master's degree or a
bachelor's degree that would be
something around sometimes they accept
65 75 but I would aim for more and it
really also really depends on the type
of university for example Stanford or
Harvard I think is the toughest one it's
a hundred six hundred nine minimum some
something crazy I haven't seen a
university requesting something about a
hundred ten so if you score a hundred
nine you will be safe on on all of the
universities including Harvard but if
it's uh like somewhere from top 50
universities like number fifteen number
sixty in rankings there will be around
80 to 90 on hopeful I'm at yay again
before we the next question just wanted
to remind you that the link for Jonathan
step lessons is below and we get 15
percent discount till midnight and then
it's back to normal pricing so if you
want to UM just take the first class and
maybe hook a package and see where you
are right now in your total crap that
should be really useful again if we have
any Chinese people we will from China
please reach out to me at marina at
lingua chirp Kong I really really need
your help because yo go all in Chinese
so difficult Jerry is not a bachelor you
have SATs from that Shore uh how can I
get competitive score in speaking
section I always get 22 and 23
um I think like a poor old those
personalized questions it will be better
to talk to Jonathan because what we
would do is Jonathan is going to give
you questions um put the speaking part
you're going to record your answers send
them to Jonathan and then you're gonna
connect and he's gonna give you feedback
and where he's going to be able to tell
you exactly what you should meet
because you're asking this question I
haven't um heard you talking so I think
getting a personalized advice here is
better than taking TOEFL all over again
like paying those $200 every time and
just getting the same score this doesn't
really make sense you can spend like 34
40 22 dollars without discounting one um
purse with Jonathan with 15 percent
discount it's like about 35 so yeah I
think that would be better than wasting
time and money on another um our SAT
angeline is similar um there's a reading
section that is kind of similar but s it
is a little more about analytics TOEFL
is more about whether you understand
what if sudden odd and SAT requires you
to dig into the text and to dig into
specifics biggest difference there is no
speaking part in a city it makes it
easier uh and so that's the biggest
difference uh hi panel um ah
thanks marine and Jonathan thank you
discount till midnight uh that's up as
for us tender tummy India sent up if you
click the link it is actually it's still
midnight your time so we are taking an
account where you are and if you click
the link below the video you're gonna
see how many hours left of the discount
disappears thank you don't hold total
timings please ah what do you mean by
that is it for our exam right it's for
hours I mean yeah we're hours and as
you've mentioned in other videos um
there might be an extra reading passage
so you might have some fluctuation on
there so they might be testing material
on you to see if they'll use that
continuing for another exam so they
might be looked at very 18 I'm surprised
surprised I had a third listening part I
was so upset I'm like
so tired I was craving for my bar
chocolate in my bottle of water and I'm
like I'm gonna go there in five minutes
and then surprise the listing front
number three I'm like again so any more
minutes and say yeah be ready for that
we're gonna please tell me the link was
subscribe Jonathan Patz is probably I
guess if you look below the video like
firstly well the video would be the link
to Jonathan's class thank you both
okay great again thank you so much guys
um I'm going to post this video on
YouTube it's going to be uploaded in
about that it takes like half an hour
off for YouTube to process the video so
you will be able to wash it and I'm
going to leave the link to Jonathan and
to this planet where you can connect
with other people who want to speak
English how's this all going to be below
the video and yeah thank you so much for
attending we're all trying to do this
more often
and thank you for your commenting that I
should do more videos I will do more
videos it's just I was relocating and
it's all stressful I usually I have uh
but now that I'm here we're gonna do it
more alright thank you so much yeah it
was pleasure I mean I think it's really
great feedback thank you everybody who's
been watching and I'm glad you found
this very helpful and yeah leave leave
comments suggestions for other things
you'd like us to discuss certain aspects
of the test or strategy skills that you
want to work on specifically let us know
and we'll be happy to put that but
you're all together right yeah if you if
you have any suggestions for the next
livestream uh write it in the comments
below
yeah little time thank you so much thank
you for you know joining us from all
over the world I guess we had with more
than 40 countries oh that's awesome
you guys are awesome thank you very much
and good luck for your TOEFL
preparations and do the best you can
yeah your and I'll see you soon bye bye